---
titze: 'Network Hardware and Transmission'
pubDate: 2025-05-16
description: 'Network hardware and transmission.'
author: 'Victor Jakxel Islas Carreon'
---

# Network Interface Cards (NICs) 
A Network Interface Card (NIC) is a hardware component that connects a computer to a network, either through cables (wired) or wirelessly (Wi-Fi).

Inside the NIC, there is a specialized integrated circuit called the network interface controller, which manages communication between the computer and the network. Some NICs may include an antenna for connecting to wireless networks like Wi-Fi.

# Hubs, switches, routers, access points

## What is a hub? 
A hub is a basic networking device used to connect multiple computers within a local area network (LAN). When one computer sends data through the hub, the hub copies (or “broadcasts”) the data to all the other devices connected to it.

## What is a switch? 
A switch is more advanced than a hub. It receives data from one device and sends it only to the device it’s intended for, rather than broadcasting it to all devices. This makes network communication faster and more efficient.

In short: Switches are like the “smarter” siblings of hubs and are commonly used in LANs.

## What is a router?
A router connects different networks, such as a home or office network to the internet. It forwards data packets between your local network and an external network (usually the internet). Routers often include a WAN (Wide Area Network) port to connect to services like ADSL or fiber, and they commonly provide wireless connectivity (Wi-Fi).

# What are the differences?
- Hubs and switches both handle data frames and amplify signals before sending them out. 
- The main difference is that hubs send the data to all connected devices, while switches send data only to the intended recipient.
- Routers are more advanced. They include many of the same functions as switches but also allow devices to connect to external networks (like the internet), not just local ones.

## The accces Point
The acces point is a device that interconects wireless communication devices, to form a wareless network that interconnect movil devices or wirelessly network cards.
Are devices that are configured in networks of wareless types that are intermediaries between a computer and a network( wifi or local).
facilitate conect several client machines without the neccesity of cables and what this posses a conection withot limiting his band width.

# Transmission media (wired/wireless)


# Signal encoding and modulation

